# Creating lists in React with .map and .filter
If you're coming from an Angular background, you're familiar with the idea of 'ng-repeat'. Most every framework has some syntax specific to the framework for creating a list in your UI. With React, it's "Just JavaScript", so to create an unordered list, you can just use JavaScript's native .map property. .map is a property on every Array in JavaScript and allows you to "map" over an array, modify each item in that array, and returns you a new array after each item in the array has been modified.

```javascript
var numbers = [1,2,3];
var numbersPlusTen = numbers.map(function (num) {
  return num + 10
});
console.log(numbersPlusTen) // [11, 12, 13]
```

In the code above what we're doing is we're "mapping over" numbers and we're adding 10 to each item in the array.

Let's take a look at how we'd use .map to build a list for our UI in React. We’re going to have two components now. One parent, one child. The parent is going to pass down data to the child as props. Let’s first take a look at that parent component.


```javascript
class FriendsContainer extends React.Component {
  render() {
    var name = 'Tyler McGinnis';
    var friends = ['Ean Platter', 'Murphy Randall', 'Merrick Christensen'];
    return (
      <div>
        <h3> Name: {name} </h3>
        <ShowList names={friends} />
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

Now let's look at the child component.

```javascript
class ShowList extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h3> Friends </h3>
        <ul>
          {this.props.names.map(function(friend){
            return <li> {friend} </li>;
          })}
        </ul>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

Remember that the code that gets returned from our render method is a representation of what the real DOM should look like. If you’re not familiar with Array.prototype.map, this code might look a little wonky. All map does is it creates a new array, calls our callback function on each item in the array, and fills the new array with the result of calling the callback function on each item. For example,

```javascript
var friends = ['Ean Platter', 'Murphy Randall', 'Merrick Christensen'];
var listItems = friends.map(function(friend){
  return "<li> " + friend + "</li>";
});
console.log(listItems); // ["<li> Ean Platter </li>", "<li> Murphy Randall</li>", "<li> Merrick Christensen </li>"];
```

Notice all that happened was we made a new array and added <li> </li> to each item in the original array. What’s great about map is it fits perfectly into React (and it’s built into JavaScript). So in our child component above, we’re mapping over names, wrapping each name in a pair of <li> tags, and saving that to our listItems variable. Then, our render method returns an unordered list with all of our friends.

`.filter` is similar to `.map` but instead of returning a new array after you've modified each item in the array, `.filter` allows you to filter out certain items in an array. For example, let's say one day we decided that we only wanted to have friends whose name started with 'E'. With filter, that would look like this,

```javascript
var friends = ['Ean', 'Tyler', 'Mikenzi', 'Eric', 'Jessica'];
var newFriends = friends.filter(function (friend) {
  return friend[0] === 'E'
});
console.log(newFriends) // ['Ean', 'Eric']
```
