# .reduce
You might not realize it, but often in programming you'll need to take a list of things and convert that into just one item - whether an integer, an object, or another array.

Let's take a look at some examples to see what I mean by that.

```javascript
var scores = [89, 76, 47, 95]
var initialValue = 0
var reducer = function (accumulator, item) {
return accumulator + item
}
var total = scores.reduce(reducer, initialValue)
var average = total / scores.length
```

So we have an array of scores and we want to get an average. So we're essentially going to look at every score in our array, total them up, then divide that total by how many scores are in the array. Looks like a perfect opportunity to use .reduce since we're taking a list of values and transforming it into a single number.

You'll notice `.reduce` takes in two values, a callback function and an initial value.

The callback (reducer) function has two parameters. This is where .reduce can get a little weird if you're not used to it.

The very first time the `reducer` function is called, it's going to be passed the `initialValue` you gave it (the 2nd argument to .reduce) and the first item in the actual array. So in our example above the first time that our `reducer` function runs, `accumulator` is going to be 0 and `item` is going to be 89. Remember, the goal is to transform an array into a single value. We currently have two numbers, 0 and 89, and are goal is to get that to one value. Because we're wanting to find the sum of every item in the array, we'll add 89 + 0 to get 89. That brings up a very important step. The thing that gets returned from the `reducer` function will then be passed as the `accumulator` the next time the function runs. So when `reducer` runs again, `accumulator` will be 89 and item will now be the second item in the array, 76. This pattern continues until we have no more items in the array and we get the summation of all of our reducer functions, which is 307.

I realize that was super wordy and now would be a good time to go play around with reducing arrays of numbers.

`.reduce` can be used for more than transforming an array of numbers. It's all about that initialValue that you pass to reduce. If you want the end result to be an object (therefore converting an array into an object), have the initialValue be an object and add properties to that object as you go.

Here's an example of how you would do that below. You have an array of foods and you want to transform that to an object whose keys are the food itself and whose values are how many votes that food received.

````javascript
var votes = [
  'tacos',
  'pizza',
  'pizza',
  'tacos',
  'fries',
  'ice cream',
  'ice cream',
  'pizza'
]
var initialValue = {}
var reducer = function(tally, vote) {
  if (!tally[vote]) {
    tally[vote] = 1;
  } else {
    tally[vote] = tally[vote] + 1;
  }
  return tally;
}
var result = votes.reduce(reducer, initialValue) // {tacos: 2, pizza: 3, fries: 1, ice cream: 2}
````

Array.reduce can be tricky at first, but once you learn to harness its power, you'll drastically improve the way you transform lists.